# Bootcamp_HW_Case_Study
Case Study Homework









Case Study: Get Exposure to Real Asset Prices via CRYPTO
Eddie S. Fernandez
Course/Number
September 15, 2020
Instructor’s Name









Get Exposure to Real Asset Prices via CRYPTO
	The race is on for the first cryptocurrency that will be backed up by tangible assets or something with value. Most early crypto startups went into the gold backing while some preferred oil and other commodities. LATOKEN deep dive into the world of real estate. Headquartered in London, England, the company was meticulously administered by three founding fathers. The company was incorporated on 2017 by Valentin Preobrazhensky (CEO) together with Danila Simonov (CTO), Roman Zhdanov (Managing Director) and Denis Simagin (Managing Director). The company was conceptualized in Estonia hence, the nick name Estonia based cryptocurrency was originated. LATOKEN was able received funding of around $18M from their ICO.
	Emerging market are always interested in real estate loan investment, but the purchase process demands a plethora of minutiae that derails the transaction. Real estate needs investors but not just an ordinary investor. For real estate to thrive, a group of global deep-pocket investors are of greatest importance. Emerging markets are a force to be reckoned with, yet these groups are being denied access due to the antiquated structures of the real estate financing world. Participants of the emerging markets are not monolithic as they are constantly looking for avenue to invest with. The CEO of LATOKEN was able to observe the efforts of emerging market investors and how they suffer going through the bottleneck. Valentin Preobrazhensky was an experienced hedge funds manager when he discovered that emerging markets have a minimal participation of low home loans due to ambiguity towards investors and the exorbitant costs of deals. Preobrazhensky came up with a strategic plan for home equity lenders which eventually lowered their barriers of entry.



Background
	Real estate is a people business and has not dropped out of the conversation. Alexander Pope, and English poet once mentioned “To Err is Human.” Hence, the historical bottleneck in real estate loan financing occurred and will just keep on menacing the system until someone jumps and puts an end to it. Another facet of the problem is that raising finance for new real estate projects is somewhat difficult. Crowd financing is unimaginable for startups to administer especially if they deal only with single sources of loan providers who can trap them with excessive high interest charges.
	The author of this case study is indeed fascinated in creating a cryptocurrency back up by real estate as there is no doubt it is one of the most stable and high likelihood of asset appreciation. Dissecting the past and future of LATOKEN being one of the first startup to venture in real estate tokenization would be a great step in formulating the most desirable cryptocurrency ever created. Lessons from their past blind spots will catapult as into the most beneficial future of blockchain technology.
	LATOKEN started with a mission to serve as a real asset trading platform but gradually they started deviating to multi-asset and ended up mostly dealing with virtual asset trading. They brag as the first to tokenize the real estate and virtual assets and then trade on the exchange. LATOKEN ambitiously tried to tokenize the shares of blue-chip companies but to no avail. Burdensome regulation and lack of funding may have stalled their vision. Their platform includes a launchpad for startups to conduct their ICO. So far, no trading history occurred despite the huge number of registered users. Although they had an inability to provide some of the promising features, LATOKEN was considered among the top exchanges. Their recent Market Cap goes to $12,976,169; 24 Volume of $33,021 with a circulating supply of 380,104,462 and a total supply of 400,000,000.
	Their wallet is secured by the Advanced Encryption Standard (AES-256) algorithm. Salted SHA-256 is currently used for their databases to ensure security of account passwords. LATOKEN has all the current security features of modern digital wallet systems to ensure that their assets will not be compromised. Their system is equipped with complete KYC and AML compliant. LATOKEN exchange has its own utility, the LA token, which is designed to facilitate transactions both as a quote currency and to settle transaction fees on the platform. The LATOKEN exchange conducted its initial coin offering in 2017 where it raised about 20 million USD by selling over 57 million LA tokens.
	Initially, they sold 57 million during their ICO. Currently, about 380 million are in circulation. The LATOKEN is currently distributed to over 4,300 addresses with LATOKEN holding about 84% of the total distribution. LATOKEN airdrops LA token through its community referral tasks. In the early days, LA token was listed on other exchanges to include KuCoin, OkEx, Coinexchange, HitBTC, EtherDelta, BigOne; however, cryptocurrency data provider CoinMarketCap now reports only 2 other exchanges apart from the native exchange where LA Token is listed: HitBTC and CoinExchange.
     LATOKEN overlaps various domain including FinTech Real Estate, Blockchain and Cryptocurrencies, Capital Investment. Elimination of information asymmetry and fraud. The issue of information asymmetry between asset owners and buyers is leading to significant erosion in the market itself; low-quality assets becoming more profitable to sell than high-quality assets. Fraud is another problem plaguing the financial sector. There have been numerous legal proceedings arising from fraudulent mortgage-backed securities (MBS) after the 2008 crisis. Competition is tough in this industry. BreezeCoin is the number one in the list so far in terms of daily trading. Leaxcoin is a blockchain-based platform in a global community format and currently gathering momentum to the real estate market.
     LATOKEN equipped with the Ethereum blockchain. This new technology presents a practical solution to realize the following industry benefits: Tokenization of real estate assets; process efficiency for underlying industry operations; reduced costs from process automation; access to global asset distribution; access to broader investor pools due to ownership fractionalization; access to secondary market opportunities; data accessibility to increase transparency and inform better investment decisions and portfolio management.
     The platform enhances liquidity and transparency of assets, as well as reduces transaction costs. It provides cryptoholders with transparent price discovery and diversification across multiple asset classes as it allows the creation or listing of third-party asset tokens compliant with their disclosure and legal structure rules. LATOKEN allows asset owners to unlock the value of their assets and gain instant liquidity by creating asset token and selling them to cryptoholders with minimal transactions. LATOKEN is based on profitable home equity marketplace. The team has a strong track record in hedge fund management, development of marketplace, trading terminals and work at companies such as Avega Capital, McKinsey, BCG, Ernst & Young.
     Blockchain simplifies access to alternative financing models by facilitating investor management for developers and ensuring investment transparency and continuous ROI tracking for investors. Blockchain based financial products can also be programmed for global distribution. These solutions simplify investor experience, increase investor confidence, and unlock access to a wider investor pool.
     LATOKEN has a proven history on the exchange. The exchange has good liquidity and stands in the top 100 exchanges by daily trading volume. The user interface is well simplified for even newbies to quickly find their way around. The IEO success rate and exposure may attract prospects. On the other hand, LATOKEN has a questionable asset being listed on the exchange that lowers their exchange reputation. Too much of the circulating supply of the LA token is held by the exchange. Poor support makes it difficult to trust resolutions would be carried out promptly if users encounter problems. LATOKEN scam accusations suggesting wash trade can deter new users if volumes are misleading. Too many poor LATOKEN reviews are a huge deterring factor. There are no fiat gateways currently integrated with the exchange.
	Despite the magnificent start, LATOKEN also battled some negative publicity issues. It is not a surprise for young rising superstar like LATOKEN to have some people scream that their projects are scam especially when they fall short on their delivery. These gloomy pictures however invite stakeholders to review their risks. While scanning for possible LATOKEN scam accusations, the most prevalent complaints came from users who had issues with customer support when transactions were wrong, especially due to deposit errors. Other users complained that LATOKEN listed scam projects, which perhaps questions the exchange’s due diligence. Although, after listing, some projects underperform and do not gain trading traction after a while; besides, there are numerous other factors to consider as prices of assets on an exchange decline.
 
Evaluation of the Case
	IBREA (International Blockchain Real Estate Association) believes that blockchain technology will be used by the real estate professionals and it will be much quicker than most imagine. Real estate owners and businesses who adopt blockchain earlier will experience the biggest benefit and will set themselves apart as leaders for the next revolution in the property industry. Despite of the fact that the leadership of IBREA are the pioneers in this endeavor and are so optimistic that the mainstream will adopt its technology, they knew that it will take a while before the information technology expert would collaborate and connect the dots.
LATOKEN focuses on the tokenization of asset right from the start. They never focus on solving the issues brought by IBREA in which keeping track of who owns what pieces of land is still a low-tech affair, involving mountains of hand-signed documents, envelopes, and couriers. That is, if a country is lucky enough to have a functioning land registry—the World Bank estimates that 70% of the world’s population lacks access to land titling. Getting everyone to agree on every stage of a property transaction, and to record it permanently somewhere, is a feat of security, coordination, and trust.
Luckily a Swedish (Chroma Way) system started operating a private blockchain that has the land authority and others, like the banks, holding copies of the records. When a land title changes hands, each step of the process is verified and recorded on the blockchain. The system acts as a highly secure and transparent verification and storage service for property transactions, but it stops short of a full-blown cryptocurrency where land can be bought and sold as easily as a bitcoin.
	Chroma Ways’ smart contracts will facilitate a smoother and tamper-proof asset exchange process for the real estate market, thereby transforming the real estate transaction process into something more intuitive, less complicated, and with decreased costs. 
Going back to the emerging markets in which many foreigners who are interested in real estate investing encounter considerable difficulties, mainly in long-distance real estate negotiations. Depending on each jurisdiction (country, state or city), the purchase process demands a massive layers of paper works that can quickly derail the transaction. Another burden are the gruesome details about the negotiations such as financing, security, regulations, and fees. In most cases, it is necessary to hire real estate professionals to analyze all documents to check any legal impediment, request debt clearance certificates, and prevent fraud. 
Despite the importance of real estate for both society and individuals, there are many parts of the real estate transactions and the information about those transactions that take a long time to update. Many of these things are also based on outdated legislation. Information in the land registry can be missing because some part of the registration process has gone wrong. It usually takes a long time from when the purchasing contract is signed to when the bill of sale is signed, and the actual transfer of the property takes place. 
To summarize some of the main issues to be addressed in the current process we can highlight these problems: The Land Registration Office is only involved in a few steps at the end of the real estate transactions. As consequence, majority of the process is not transparent, in other words, visible to the public or other stakeholders. The system is slow at registering real estate transactions. The time between the signing a legally binding purchasing contract and when Land Registration Office receives the bill of sale and make the approval of the title is often three to six months. The issues above have resulted in sellers, buyers, banks and real estate agents being forced to create their own complex processes for agreements, since they have to make sure that things can’t go wrong, and because the value of the transactions is large. This creates inefficiency. The Land Registration Office is continuously working on reducing the problems and weaknesses in its processes and systems. Blockchain technology provides the opportunity to solve many of these issues. In the long run, there is also great value if a solution can be developed and provide a framework and support for multiple government agencies where appropriate.
Proposed Solution
The main objective of using blockchain technology in real estate is to make transactions more transparent via a peer-to peer system while also complying with the legalities for every country where the exchange of real estate assets takes place. With the rise of cryptocurrency value, crypto investors will be heading with more valuable assets. From furniture dealerships to Amazon sellers, look for more vendors of all types to start accepting cryptocurrencies as payment.  But the vendors will not necessarily want to speculate on future value and will look to trade crypto back to cash.  That could put some downward pressure on crypto prices but will ultimately turn a short-term bubble into a long-term rally as crypto becomes useful and viable. More and more media outlets expound upon the rise of cryptocurrency; consumers and investors are looking at new ways to get involved. With increased optimism in cryptocurrencies like Bitcoin, those investing are speculating on the potential growth and use cases of this market that may not even come to fruition for another 5-10 years.
	Investors have started looking at cryptocurrencies and smart contracts as a new ecosystem.  They do not just care about the price of the coin or token, but about what kind of ecosystem it enables.  For example, using bitcoin to buy a house is interesting, but using ethereum smart contracts to reduce title transfer risk for buyers is more so.
	Governments agencies are now more involved in using the blockchain and smart contracts to finally digitize government records.  Often centered around property records, these government use cases should further boost use cases for smart contracts and the blockchain in real estate.
	Another fascinating opportunity created by blockchain-powered smart contracts is they facilitate fractional ownership of residential real estate.  Currently, changing ownership can be time-consuming and costly.  The paperwork to sell 2% of a house to one’s brother or child might cost $2,000.  The blockchain makes these transactions as simple as recording a number with a decimal point, and smart contracts make ‘control’ issues easy to address; the rules go along with the contract or token.
	Land Registration Office are now improving their processes associated with real estate transactions to accommodate the inevitable blockchain technology. Improvement includes:  Eliminating the need for physical archives of contracts and files; Increased resilience and redundancy of the transactional data in the land registry and the mortgage deed registry; Greater security for users of the system, in part because validation of the purchasing contracts and ownership can be done independently from Land Registration Office; Faster and more transparent transactions; Official registration and confirmation of pending ownership around four months earlier than in the current process, which allows more information and data of transactions to be available, increase liquidity of real estate since it can be sold by the soon to be owner, and more; Making it possible to receive automatic confirmation of final land title at the date of transaction; Significantly improved mortgage deed handling, and making payments of loans dependent on secure transfer of mortgage deed; Elimination of the possibility of selling a property more than once; Making it more difficult to steal a property.
In countries where the enforcement of land ownership is difficult, providing security for the buyer of a property has high costs. The cost of insurance safeguarding a real estate can be 10% of the purchasing value. If these costs could be reduced to 1%, the value for the economy is enormous. A report by the World bank has found that the mortgage market is much higher in developed countries. Having a trustworthy record and possibility to secure land ownership may be a necessary condition for developing a country. A financial market may be difficult to develop without mortgages, and a mortgage market will be difficult to develop without trustworthy and enforceable real estate ownership. Uncertainty of land ownership is also a major obstacle for agriculture to develop in many countries. Farmers do not dare to invest in the land, new seeds, and may farm destructively since maximizing the harvest in the short term may be rational given the risk of losing ownership of the land. A trusted land registry is fundamental for increased food production and more sustainable land use in many countries. High GDP per capita is arguably only possible with a trusted land registry
Consequently, this process prevents foreign investors from proceeding with the transaction. Summarily, the real estate industry should operate within a shared database while still ensuring that each participant maintains a choice as to what property data will be shared and when. Thus, reinforcing a trust, but verify system.

Recommendations
	LATOKEN must focus on the tokenization of real estate assets. By doing so, it allows the entrepreneurs in emerging markets to benefit from a new generation of democratized and tokenized investments in private companies. Tokenization in real estate refers to the digitization of securities, alternative assets, and financial instruments. Through Ethereum blockchain technology, digital assets can be programmed to include ownership rights, transaction history, and rules to ensure asset issuance, distribution and transfers are regulation compliant. Simple examples include controls to ensure that tokens can only be transferred to certain counterparties, or not at all during a lock-up period. Digital asset customization is possible in meeting all kinds of issuer requirements. 
	Hence, tokenization eases the costs and improves the speed of creating, issuing, and exchanging assets, innovating new features, administering dividends, and managing other corporate actions. In-depth customization and rapid issuance allow issuers to alter digital assets directly per investor demands, significantly reducing risk with counterparts. Reduced costs allow issuers to lessen minimum investment amounts and expand access to a wider pool of investors. Increased connectivity between digital assets and associated networks expands secondary market opportunities and improves liquidity. These benefits to both issuers and investors demonstrate the real promise of blockchain is a future with fundamentally new instruments and markets. 
	Loan origination and underwriting remain unstandardized and reliant on paper documentation. Security structuring is left open to interpretation, and great effort is required to protect against double-pledging of assets. Trading and asset servicing decisions are often made based on outdated data. And lastly, cash reconciliations across lifecycle events often incur settlement delays impacting investor cash flow. 
	Blockchain offers banking institutions a single version of verified information, secure data sharing, immutable transaction monitoring, and real-time payment settlement. By digitizing a loan or mortgage, it can be programmed to include relevant data such as ownership rights and loan payment history to support future servicing decisions. Smart contracts can be utilized to collect and distribute payments to beneficiary holders and deliver real-time reporting to regulators. This delivers efficient lifecycle management and generates confidence in secondary markets by providing investors proof of asset performance.
	Large scale property management firms endure inefficient oversight of their global portfolios. Blockchain facilitates secure data sharing, streamlines rental collections and payments to property owners, and provides premium due diligence across the portfolio. This increases operational efficiency and allows for time- and cost-savings. It also generates substantially richer data to facilitate better decision making. Land titles continue to rely on paper documentation, vulnerable to loss, fraud, and mismanagement. In addition, property transfers and permits require a multitude of lengthy and costly legal procedures, sometimes locking land in unproductive use. 
	Blockchain replaces outdated paper deeds with true digital assets and tracks changes on an immutable ledger that acts as a secure shared source of truth for documents between multiple parties and organizations. Ethereum enables transaction and property ownership records to be more accessible— facilitating market transactions, increasing investor confidence, unlocking access to finance, and promoting economic and social community development. 
	Larger construction projects have become increasingly difficult to manage with fractured sub-contracting and procurement practices and a lack of supply chain transparency. A blockchain platform can simplify procurement with reputation management for suppliers and subcontractors, incentivizing high performance. Smart contracts can automate contract agreements and payment terms to enhance financial management. Blockchain can prove the authenticity of premium goods at their point of origin by associating products with non-fungible tokens and using these as digital blockchain certificates. Lastly, blockchain can streamline project management by digitizing end-to-end processes. This will enable construction managers to securely track and share project status with key stakeholders and minimize bottlenecks, allowing for more efficient project management.
	Blockchain-based digital identities will be powerful across multiple industries, consumer applications, and within the public sector. Tenant and investor identities from mutualized blockchain-based KYC/AML procedures can streamline background checks, reduce costs, and increase security. Decentralized identities enable anyone to prove ownership of properties while making essential documents (proof of insurance, identity, credit history) easily shareable with necessary parties. 
	Distributed ledger technology enables leases to be signed and paid on-chain. This removes the need for manual reconciliations and automates rental and dividend payments to property owners. Smart contracts can also automate other types of payments and fees to incentivize good behaviour from tenants, landlords, and service providers. With property ownership and cash flows recorded on-chain, investors and asset owners benefit from automated and near-immediate accounting. In the future, the preparation of annual financial statements, such as the balance sheet, statement of cash flows, or income statement will be conducted with the potential for real-time audits. This enables multiple breakthroughs in compliance, regulatory oversight, and investor relations. 
At the end, the result will be a secured process for real estate transactions and mortgage deeds. All involved actors will have a digital file representing the agreement of ownership of the real estate, mortgage deeds and the transaction process. These files can be stored in the cloud, locally, or some other method of the actor’s choosing. The authenticity of the process, the signatures, the file confirming ownership, mortgage deeds etc. will be secured with a blockchain. It will therefore be easy for authorized third parties to verify information. These third parties would usually be actors who are part of the process such as banks, buyers, sellers, real estate agents etc. The records and files that should be public according to the local laws will be public and those which should be confidential will stay confidential. There will be no bearer instrument stored on the blockchain in the current implementation. This precludes the risk of such authoritative documents being lost, stolen, or tampered with. Bearer instruments could be implemented in the future, but it should be noted that doing so entails risks and legislative uncertainties that require further investigation. The only way to steal a property is through entering a new real estate transaction process with stolen or forged identification. The security of the ID-solution can be improved according to the requirements of the system in question. More stringent identification procedures (photos of physical ID-cards, biometric identification, multi signatures, etc.) can be easily implemented.
The current process is designed to involve Land Registration Offices, real estate agents, buyers, sellers, and banks. The process can be redesigned to involve other actors such as notaries, insurance companies and local public authorities. The value of the described solution will be substantial. For countries without a trustworthy real estate ownership record and land registry, a similar project may be the easiest, most cost efficient and fastest way to increase GDP in the medium term. It will serve as a foundation for better investments in land, enable the development of a mortgage market and a credit market in general, and become an institution for trust in one of the most fundamental parts of an economy: land and real estate.
 
References

Barzilay, O. (2017, August 7). Will Blockchain Ignite Fractional Ownership Market For Homes? 
Retrieved from https://www.forbes.com/sites/omribarzilay/2017/08/07/will-blockchain-ignite-fractional-ownership-market-for-homes/#736485cc3370
Hill, N. (2020, January). A New Narrative For Emerging Markets & Blockchain Enabled 
Finance. Retrieved from https://medium.com/datadriveninvestor/a-new-narrative-for--emerging-markets-blockchain-enabled-finance-e4e553da0499
LATOKEN. Retrieved from https://www.crunchbase.com/organization/latoken
LATOKEN Review: The Best Cryptocurrency Exchange in 2020? Retrieved from 	https://www.cryptocoinsociety.com/reviews/latoken-review/

Leaxcoin. Building the Future of Real Estate via Smart Contracts. Whitepaper. Retrieved from 
	http://leax.io/whitepaper-leaxcoin.pdf

Rothman, E. (n.d.). How Cryptocurrency Could Change Real Estate. Retrieved from 
	https://blog.rexhomes.com/cryptocurrencies-change-real-estate/

What are the Benefits of Blockchain in Real Estate? Retrieved from 	https://consensys.net/blockchain-use-cases/real-estate/
Wong, J.I. (2017, April 3). Sweden’s blockchain-powered land registry is inching towards 
reality. Retrieved from https://qz.com/947064/sweden-is-turning-a-blockchain-powered-land-registry-into-a-reality/

